I am Alfred Nobel. born in 1833 in
Stockholm, Sweden. I am a chemist
and the inventor of dynamite. During my
life, I registered 355 patents and was
credited for establishing the Nobel Prize.
In 1842, my family moved to Russia where
my father had opened an engineering firm
providing equipment for the Tsar's armies.
In 1850, my father sent me abroad to study
chemical engineering. During a two-year period,
I visited Sweden, Germany, France, and the United
States. I returned to Sweden in 1863 with my
father after our family firm went bankrupt.
Back in Sweden, I devoted myself to the study
of explosives. I was particularly interested in
the safe manufacture and use of nitroglycerin,
a highly unstable explosive. My brother, Emil, had
been killed in a nitroglycerin explosion in 1864.
I incorporated this dangerous material
into silica, an inert substance,
which made it safer and easier to manipulate. This
I patented in 1867 under the name of 'dynamite'.
Dynamite established my fame and was soon used
in blasting tunnels, cutting canals, and building
railways and roads all over the world.
In the 1870s and 1880s, I built up
a network of factories all over
Europe to manufacture explosives.
In 1894, I bought an ironworks at Bofors in
Sweden that became the nucleus of the well-known
Bofors arms factory. I continued to work in my
laboratory, inventing several synthetic materials,
and went on to invent several other explosives.
In 1895, I signed my will, providing for the
establishment of the Nobel Prizes. I set aside the
bulk of my huge fortune to establish annual prizes
in Physics, Chemistry, Physiology, Medicine,
Literature, and Peace. After my death in 1896,
an economics Prize was added to the Nobel awards.
Nature is man's teacher. She unfolds her treasures
to his search, unseals his eye, illumes his mind,
and purifies his heart; an influence breathes from
all the sights and sounds of her existence. I
aim to improve people's lives through science,
I hope my inventions are put to good use to
make the world a better place for us all.